Overview:
The main goal of this project is to analyze patterns of flight delays across U.S. airports and look into the relationship between flight delays and passenger traffic. By using datasets that track flight delays and passenger counts, we hope to identify key factors that contribute to delays and see if whether high passenger volumes are correlated with increased delays. In order to successfully accomplish this task we will start with cleaning the data ensuring all information is standardized across the datasets. Next, we will go through the EDA process where we will see trends and easily identify the important patterns. This will give us a better understanding of what information we will actually be working with and understand any strong correlations present. By the end of the project, we aim to provide descriptive insights about possible correlation between airport/passenger traffic and flight delays.
Team: For this assignment, the team roles are going to be very intermixed. We plan to do most parts of the assignment together, thus the roles are hard to fully show. The one area we can discuss is our strengths. Shreya is a strong coder and will help clean the data and run some regression functions to help us answer our research questions. Colin, on the other hand, will be focused more on reading the data. He will do the majority of the work when it comes to creating a conclusion and commenting on whether there are any correlations between the number of people that go through an airport and flight delays of flights. Overall both team members are in charge of every part of the assignment, but sometimes one member will take a lead over the other. 
Research Questions:
What are the main factors contributing to flight delays across U.S. airports? Are there airports consistently more prone to delays and does this correlate to their passenger volume? How does passenger traffic relate to the frequency/duration of the delays? 
Datasets:
[Airline_Delay_Cause.csv](https://github.com/user-attachments/files/25829604/Airline_Delay_Cause.csv)
[Enplanement.csv](https://github.com/user-attachments/files/25829606/Enplanement.csv)
The first dataset consist of flight and airport information mainly informing us of the causes of delay for each flight including weather, security, carrier issues, and other operational factors. This dataset allows us to quantify and categorize delay types across airports. The key attributes in this dataset are airport_code, flight_date, delay_minutes, delay_type, and carrier. The second dataset consists of information on passenger counts at different U.S. airports. This dataset allows us to understand airport congestion and better understand reasons behind delay. The key attributes are airport_code, month, year, passenger_count. Since both datasets have the airport abbreviation, we will be able to link delay information with passenger traffic metrics. This enables us to analyze how passenger volume impacts delay patterns.
Timeline:
As we mentioned before, we plan to do most steps interlocked, but at times, both of us will be busy. The first major step is cleaning up both data sets. This is a challenging task as we must put both datasets into a position where we can use them together. Secondly, we want to run some regression analysis a little bit after we clean up the data. We don’t know which type of regression models we want to use yet, but we know that we need to use some of them to answer our research questions. After that is complete, we plan on moving towards the qualitative part of the assignment. We want to use these results to answer our research questions. This timeline is vague, as we want to leave open room to improve our project. We don’t want to restrict what we are going to do now, so we have a rough overview of our project, but things will change, and we are excited for that part. 
Constraints: 
Some major constraints with our project are that different countries have their own laws regarding flight data and data completeness. Firstly, the US has its own laws where airplane owners can opt out of offering data on their plane, and places like Japan and the EU have different laws regarding collecting data on flight information. Given the number of international flights, this constraint could cause the data to be incomplete or biased in certain circumstances. Obviously, we can’t fix this constraint, so we will keep it in the back of our mind and try to work around those obstacles. Secondly, a major constraint could be data completeness. Looking through the data sets, they look solid, but given the number of airports in the US, some of them may be missing data or have incorrect data. This is again something we can’t control, but we need to acknowledge it. In all, this is private information for lots of people, and collecting the data takes a lot of manpower. So, the data could be inaccurate and missing key parts of an airport's business model. We will keep this in mind while performing our analysis and try not to let it get in the way of us answering our research questions.  
Gaps: 
While our datasets provide a strong foundation for analyzing U.S. airport delays and passenger traffic, there are several gaps that may impact our analysis. First, some airports may have incomplete delay records. This is specifically for smaller airports where reporting may be less consistent or detailed. Similarly, passenger counts may not be available for every airport in every month or year, which could hinder the accuracy of our comparisons across airports and over time. Additionally, while the datasets capture delays and passenger numbers, they do not fully account for other operational factors that may influence delays such as, runway closures, air traffic control restrictions, and airline staffing issues. These are not consistent year round and therefor another area where more information could be beneficial.Lastly, the passenger traffic dataset is one number for the the whole calendar year. This prevents us from understanding the correlation on a day to day basis and may mask patterns. It doesn't allow for us to take into account the months of high travel and locations that are more common at certain times of the year. 
