A. Since completing our initial project proposal, we have made progress on data cleaning and preparation. This was a big first step as this was one of the most critical steps in our workflow. We began by importing both datasets, the Airline Delay Causes dataset and the Enplanement dataset, into Python using pandas. When initially looking into the airline delay dataset, we were able to identify several missing values across key numerical columns such as arrival delays, delay counts, and delay types. In order to ensure consistency across the and avoid any complications as we continued with our analysis, we removed rows with missing values using (dropna()), resulting in a fully clean dataset with no null entries across all 21 variables. In addition to dealing with missing data, we did exploratory checks on key variables to get a better understanding of their distributions. For example, we examined the range and distribution of the late_aircraft_delay variable and were able to identify extreme outliers. Through this, we were also able to find a small subset of observations with unusually high delay values exceeding 87,600 minutes. These observations were isolated allowing us to understand it better, get a closer look, and determine whether they reflect true extreme cases or potential data quality issues. This step helped us better understand the variability within the dataset and prepare for an analysis later. For the Enplanement dataset, we addressed formatting inconsistencies. We specifically worked with the numerical columns that were stored as strings with commas and percentage signs. We converted columns such as “CY 24 Enplanements,” “CY 23 Enplanements,” and “% Change” into proper numeric formats by removing the non numeric characters and using type conversion functions. We also standardized the Rank column as an integer and handled any missing categorical values by replacing null entries in the Hub column with “Non-hub.” All these steps ensured that all the variables were in cohesive usable formats for analysis. Overall, we successfully cleaned and standardized both datasets, making them easy to use for further analysis. The code used to make these changes are in our repository and will be the foundation of our project as we continue to move onto the next stages of our project.
B. At this point in time, we have gotten to complete parts of the project, while having lots left to do. Data cleaning has been fully completed, as both datasets have been standardized and prepared for analysis. The next steps are data integration and exploratory data analysis which are currently in progress. We hope to have this completed in the next week or so as we get helpful visuals and truly understand patterns in the data. Next is the regression modeling that we anticipate finishing within the next two weeks of completing the EDA process. The final stages of the project, include interpretation of results and report writing, which we  have not yet begun and are looking to being done closer to the final deadline. Overall, we are on track with our timeline and have adjusted our pacing to ensure sufficient time for analysis and refinement.
C. Based on the feedabck we receieved, we want to change our first resrach question. The data already answered the question for us. Now, we are going to look at whether  geographical regions have higher delay rates. We think this question could be useful to passengers deciding which aiports to have layover's in. Changing this research question will make our project more useful and should complement both data sets. 
TD. he main issues we have faced so far revolve around using real data sets. Throughout college, basically all data sets have been pre imported in, making our lives much easier. Now, we had to figure out how to create a new vscode file and load the data into it. These seem like silly issues, but they significantly increased the amount of time it took us to complete this project. Another big obstacle, was deciding if we should remove the potential outliers. Having a plane delay of over 15 days seems redicoulous to me, but the amount of delays that had that as their time was staggering. Thus, we choose a the high number of 60 days as are cutofff on if we should keep the data in our data set. We thought if the delay time was as high as 60 days it must be a human mistake. The hardest part with this distinction is it's using real world numbers. We don't have a teacher to give us a strict cutoff and we have to use our professional judgement. The last main challenge we found was how exactly we wanted to clean the data. We decided to remove entire rows that had a missing value, as given the high quality of the data we thought it would makes things easier on our end. On top of that, we decided to change any strings of all numbers to floats or ints. This will help us move the data at a simpler rate. In all the challenges we faced were mainly predicated on the fact that we had to make our own decisions and decide how we wanted to change the data instead of how a teacher wanted. The main way we overcame this challenge was communicating on the issues and using both of our judgements to come to a solid answer. 
My (Colin) main contribution has been cleaning the data sets. This was a difficult task and one that took some time. We discussed it thouroguhly through this reports about what is looked like. 
I (Shreya) contributed primarily to the project by designing the overall game plan for how the datasets should be cleaned and prepared for analysis. I was able to  identify key data quality issues, such as  missing values, inconsistent formats, and outliers. Understanding and knowing what needs to be removed/ fixed was very beneficial and helped effectively execute a cleaned dataset. 
